---
title: 'An Introduction to LISA and IG-LLM'
date: 2024-05-16
permalink: /posts/2024/05/lisa/
tags:
  - Machine Learning
  - LLM
  - Graphics
---
In this blog post, we introduce LISA: Learning Interpretable Skill Abstractions from Language, which is a hierarchical imitation learning framework that aims to bridge the gap between human language and machine action. LISA is a new approach to enabling machines to understand and execute complex tasks described in natural language. LISA has been tested on navigation and robotic manipulation tasks, and it outperforms a strong non-hierarchical Decision Transformer baseline in low data regimes. 

## Introduction

In the domain of machine learning, intelligent machines are designed to solve complex tasks within their environment and find optimal solutions to unseen scenarios. The interaction between humans and intelligent machines is also a crucial part of the process. In the sequential-decision making setting, when provided expert data, an agent can learn to perform these tasks via multi-task imitation learning (IL). The task specification to an agent may happen through task ID, goal images or goal demonstrations. However, these specifications demand effort and may be hard to manage and supply during testing. Here it is highly desirable that we can specify instructions in natural language, which then the machines can carry out to solve long-horizon tasks. Therefore, the focus lies on multi-task IL setup with task-specification through language.

## How LISA works

<!-- The aim of language-conditioned IL is to solve tasks in an environment based on language-conditioned trajectories at training time and a natural language instruction at test time. This can be challenging if the task requires completing multiple sub-tasks sequentially. Let's consider the task instruction "pull the handle and move black mug right". We can split that task into learning two independent sub-tasks "pull the handle" and "move black mug right".  -->

Learning Interpretable Skill Abstractions from Language (LISA) is a hierarchical imitation learning framework build to learn primitive behaviors from language-conditioned demonstrations and to generalize to unseen instructions. 

To make this possible, LISA uses two-level-architecture:  a skill predictor and a policy network.